[Music]
Hey, are we live? Are we recording?
In the cabin? In the woods? Yes.
Dolly Sods? We are in the woods.
On a mountain.
Which mountain? Dolly Sods.
Forget which side.
We're in a cabin with electricity.
It's spooky.
We have not yet found the Necronomicon.
No, we follow record player with the Dave Matthews band, 12 inch.
We played it backwards and we're pretty sure it's summoned to demon.
I notice you gentlemen have some chilled beverages there.
Oh, yes. Oh, yeah.
It's a fat tire. Yeah. No Belgium.
I'm drinking a stolen cabin beer.
This is a Rhine Geist Hustle Red Lager.
You actually went for the stuff that was in the fridge?
Yeah, I tried one.
It's a local.
It's a local. We drove by a local brewery.
Since Cincinnati. That's not local.
It's not bad. I don't even like Lager really.
But Red Lager.
Yeah.
It's doing me all right.
It's free. It is free.
The compliments of the ten.
I'm not going to replace it. Sorry, man.
I don't.
So what are you drinking there, Greg?
I have the pineapple strawberry Laquat.
Delicious. I sampled one earlier.
I pronounced it properly this time.
Do we look up and that's the correct pronunciation?
When you pronounce it right, you don't say anything.
No words actually come out.
You just pose and people know like, oh, it's Laquat.
Laquat.
The mood is set. It's like a horror movie.
It's like evil dead.
It's a little chiller than evil dead.
There's no tension yet.
Yeah.
It's good lighting too. It's very good lighting.
I did tuck tape of chainsaw to my hand, but...
Fell off.
You haven't tried the cucumber?
Fuck no.
Laquat.
You should do a shot of it. We should all do a shot.
I just fucking delicious.
You like it.
I like cucumbers. You don't like cucumbers.
I don't like cucumbers.
You still like the drink, so that both well.
Or maybe it turns out I actually do like cucumbers.
I just didn't know.
No, you know.
Wow. This is quite a learning experience.
This trip has opened your mind to many things.
I don't know. There's so many good flavors of this shit.
I feel like they're just making stuff up now.
They didn't make up cucumbers.
There's no way that those existed before the...
How often have you had a drink that contained cucumber?
Well, there's a Gatorade that has cucumber in it that apparently is really popular.
That sounds like shit.
Orange Gatorade is good.
This is reviews now about beverages.
Yeah.
We do.
Our podcast is Beverage Reviews.
ASMR for people that are thirsty.
[laughter]
When they're sitting there licking their lips right now.
Do you have some?
[laughter]
We don't want those out as needed.
Do you have to want it like a whip?
Like a...
You can make it more whip.
Yeah, make it.
It sounds like a whip.
It's not quite whip as shit.
It whips for you.
We're getting further away from a whip.
Nope.
Can the plunk?
[squeaking]
[laughter]
It's some Paul Schreiber business there, isn't it?
Yep.
[squeaking]
[laughter]
This is why we do this.
Oh my god.
That's so horrible.
[laughter]
That's why it's in my rig.
Yeah.
It sounds like a robot Paul Schreiber.
[laughter]
Sorry Paul.
Much respect.
[squeaking]
[laughter]
It's supposed to say fail, but it's failing.
It sounds like it's just saying hello.
Like every time you do it.
But just various states of like dying.
Is that how you use it?
Because you process that pretty heavily after.
Oh yeah.
Okay.
I usually hit it with a lot of CB and use the like slow down glitch stuff.
Gotcha.
I mean, to mutilate it.
[squeaking]
That's...
It's supposed to get dinosaur fucking a robot.
I know we've talked about this in the past, but does he know this is what you're doing to his creation?
I doubt it.
And speaking of Paul Schreiber.
Oh, because he's going to be somewhere.
He's going to be a knob cone.
That was coming up.
Yeah.
And he's going to be showing the new E3502 is it?
52.
You're right.
Yeah.
Because the 50 was the original morphing terrarium.
Yes.
He's got the E52, which has a CV attenuator.
There's a lot more control.
The whole beautiful colored display.
Is it touch screen or no?
I don't think it's touch screens.
No.
But it is a nice display.
It's got the XY scope shit on which people love to do with his module.
Definitely step up than what's on my E951 expander.
That's just like black and white tiny little ID.
It's not this.
It's a job done, but yeah.
But this also doesn't really have a menu system.
Like the...
Yeah.
The 352 does.
You know what I mean?
So you actually need to be able to have a nice screen to navigate.
It looks like he did a good job with that.
Yeah.
It looks beautiful all around.
And he's got that wave editor too, which people are pretty excited about just across the board to make waveforms for stuff.
Seems like a pretty nice program.
Yeah.
I never had the 350, but I had the 344.
I like that a lot.
And this looks like a mutant of both of those combined, you know, to the 10th power along with a display to see what the hell you're doing.
Like you can make a cloud of E350 waveforms now.
You know, I mean, not just the sine waves and the saw waves.
It looks like a beast.
Yeah.
Looking forward to checking it out.
Because he's got the poly version too, which he's been cooking on for a while.
Yeah.
The four voice one.
Not as exciting.
To me is the fully patched out and all of that.
352.
Yeah, I agree.
The big one.
Yeah.
Was too big for me.
My needs.
I don't really need poly.
And it's an expensive and large module.
I mean, it looks awesome.
It's just not something that I felt like I ever needed.
352.
I can definitely see you getting one of those.
In black.
Yeah, that's the thing.
Because I think if you want it in black, you got to get it now.
Yeah.
It's like, oh, that's a trick.
That's a dirty trick.
I need a good one.
If he has any for sale at NovCon, I might be going home with one.
Yeah, maybe.
We'll see.
I've been tempted by it.
I want the in-person demo that we've been getting from Paul every year at NovCon.
With every new thing that he has.
He always does a hell of a job explaining it while making me feel completely inadequate.
As a human being.
And I always go home and buy what he showed me.
Yeah.
Doing it, he's kind of like as people are freaking out about the status of it, he's kind of
like, yeah, whatever.
I know what I'm doing and I'm making progress and here it is.
It's kind of cool to see a lot of the haters being just shut down by Paul being pretty
damn consistent with what he's doing.
He comes out of nowhere with these things and it's just like there's nothing else like
that on the market.
And all of a sudden, all these people pop up on Muffwiggler and they're trying to tell
him what he needs to be doing with this module.
And I was like, what are you comparing this to?
There's nothing else that exists.
Like this is, he's the one inventing this shit.
Just let him do his thing.
Like, yeah.
So speaking of NovCon.
Yes.
The list of people presenting or whatever, the list came out yesterday.
Oh, was there any surprises?
There was a few.
Wait, are we on the list?
We are.
Because we have a table.
We're presenting.
Shit right down there, Sisek Stomster.
Wow.
We're fucking famous.
We have nothing.
Noise engineering is listed as presenting, which to my knowledge, he's never done before.
No.
We've always just played with the noise engineering stuff and other people's racks there.
Yeah.
I think usually along with--
I thought it was one of the places that was selling stuff.
Fox to them.
Yeah, that was--
Okay.
Yeah.
So, engineering's on there.
That's the first to my knowledge.
That'd be cool.
Industrial music electronics will be back.
New jams that he's bringing.
Oh, yeah.
He's got at least three that he's been kind of teasing, right?
Oh, three modules?
Argos, Bleak, and a few others.
Argos, Bleak.
What does that actually do?
No fucking clue.
Yeah, I don't know.
Okay.
The videos that he's posted, it sounds cool.
I finally get to check it out, I guess, in person.
Moog, Moog.
They've been in there in the past, though, haven't they?
Yeah.
They've been in that whole corner.
And the hotel that one year?
Yeah, I forget.
I mean, we didn't go pay attention.
It was on the second floor, like at the top of the stairs.
It was the second to last hotel.
I thought usually just people brought--
No moog, though.
--stuff in.
They got like signs and shit.
Yeah, they were there, show us how much I pay attention.
Like that's-- I mean, there were a lot of people there and they were fired up for it.
Yeah, because they had all those, like, they had everything that they make, like all those
sub-37.
Sub-37 looks rad.
It's just not something I'm giving.
Bye.
It's like a TV out.
It looks really-- like it integrates very well with a modular, which it should.
Yeah.
We got an electron.
Maybe shilling off their Mark II previews?
I don't even want to see the Mark II.
It's just-- I'm going to want it.
I know I want it.
Yeah.
It's like already a done deal.
I honestly want to check out Heat in person.
Oh, yeah?
I'm curious.
Curious.
What do you think-- where do you think the surprise is going to be?
It's either going to sound better than I imagine or sound exactly as I imagine.
Oh.
It'd be good to find out.
Yeah.
I mean, just the reason why I haven't gotten one yet, because I just don't see how it's
going to stand out over any other, like, distortion pedal out there that costs half the price
or an old analog mixer that costs, like, one-eighth the price.
Yeah.
You know what I mean?
I don't know.
I know, Serchai used it quite a bit, it seems.
Yeah, he-- I see him using it in some Instagram videos, but at the same time, he's
also running that same sound source through, like, multiple other distortion paths before
it hits the electric--
Like, electric mechanical.
Right.
And he's always slamming everything with that L1 stereo compressor, and I know that thing
sounds amazing, so--
Right.
It's hard to tell how much of that nice sounding compressed distortion is coming from Heat
or from other sources, you know?
It's basically what I want to find out, is how brutal can this thing get?
And it'd be as brutal as a-- or more brutal than, like, an old fucking Mackie mixer,
you know what I mean?
Yeah.
If you can reach that level of nastiness and still keep the noise floor low, then I'm
interested, you know what I mean?
But if, otherwise, if it sounds like the same, then why bother?
Right.
You can get an old mixer for fucking $75.
Yeah.
What's 700?
What's the, um, the white version of it that's like--
It's--
Drive, is that it?
Like, just called Drive or something?
Yeah.
Because I see a-- it's like a guitar magazine, and guitar people seem to, like, it gets,
like, huge, awesome ratings.
But that doesn't mean much for us, you know?
The main difference with that thing is you have no presets saving, you have no envelope
follower and no stereo out.
No over-bridge, no US.
Right.
It's just like straight forward.
It's just straight pedal.
It's just a pedal.
Yeah.
Which is kind of more appealing to me, you know?
It's a little smaller, less expensive, and it's just doing what it's supposed to be doing
as distorting shit, which is all I would be using it for.
I hope they have a rhythm sitting there to hook up into a heat, because then we'll be
able to--
Right.
--know what that sounds like.
That's basically what I want to do.
Or a machine drum, you know?
Right.
Or just drag your--
Drag your--
Drag your rig over there.
Yeah.
And just sit it down, go.
Just plug it in.
Listen.
There's a good chance I'm going to walk away with this.
Let me plug this in and see what it does.
Take it for a test drive.
Yeah.
I was going to bring my video shit.
To the--
Oh, you fucking--
Oh, you fucking should.
That's a good idea.
It's really--
How would you present it?
Would you bring the Commodore monitor?
Mm-hmm.
Sweet.
Yeah.
It's a great idea.
If we have space for it, I think we do.
I crossed my mind.
Yeah, yeah.
But that's cool.
Probably have to seat-belt it in, except that thing's old and heavy.
Right.
But yeah, I'm sure you're going to do that.
We'll deal down one of the TVs from our hotel room.
Zeta-Omes on there?
Oh, yeah.
Get the play of a working, Fluctious one this time?
Yeah.
Not just look at the prototype.
Will you guys have them by then?
It doesn't look like it.
No, no.
I think they're going to be shipping out.
I think late August now.
Oh, even-- I think it's like more September October.
Yeah.
I'm still-- I'm wildly looking forward to that.
Super excited to maybe use this or replacement for some of the variegating voltage block
for a live situation.
I'm very excited for you guys to get them, so that I can play with them.
It seems like an amazing machine.
Yeah.
I think he's in releaseable format, like pretty much at any point.
I know he's just-- he added like swing per channel, a few other things that he said he
wanted to add, but it wasn't thinking they were going to be in the initial release.
But now he just has more time.
Is WMD going to be there?
Not on the list?
That's a bummer.
They usually are the ones who demo some other stuff from other people.
They're just sick of people asking about the Geiger.
Not the Geiger, the--
Game of Wave.
It was his proof that the Omni Mods exist where he also had a picture of, here's the Geiger
Counter Pro pedal that nobody's seen until now.
Keep in mind that this is not the finalized list.
Oh, well, hopefully they jump on that.
Yeah.
I think they've been there every year we've been there.
There isn't too much like the-- too much more that I can think of it in the op-con that
I'm really looking forward to see that I know right now.
It was engineering.
It was engineering-- yeah, the percido or--
Yeah.
I don't think that seems-- I want to put some time in with that.
I might not actually be able to fit it.
I don't know, because I got the 4MS Sampler combo.
Oh, that's-- yeah, that's pretty bad.
--is pretty shit about next week, I think.
And it's pretty big.
So I'm going to have to rearrange some shit.
So I'm curious, what do you want to do with the 4 milliseconds one?
Aside from just general carnage and stuff, are you thinking drum duties, both everything?
Both.
I already have a couple ideas to make full banks of drum hits, but on the other hand,
I want to dedicate several banks through just live looping.
I was reading the manual, you can have each sound immediately loop when it ends.
I forget what it is, but you hold down two buttons and that'll either go from one shot
to loop mode.
So you can toggle between the two, but also every sample, there's a dedicated end out,
or a jack.
So when the sound clip ends, it'll generate a gate.
So essentially, you can have it generate the start every time it ends.
So you could like fuck with the start and end times and every time it ends, trigger
itself over and over.
And so you could do some really weird granular type stuff.
Does it also have like gate play?
Like you send it to gate.
You don't want to play that long.
I don't know.
That's a good question.
Good question.
So if you have it in loop mode, you could have it playing in a loop only as long as it's
receiving a gate.
Yeah, I get what you're saying.
That would be cool.
No idea if it could do that.
Yeah, I'm excited for it mainly because I don't know.
I bounce out a lot of the stuff that I make in the modular as chunks, and then I drop
them into slicers and loopers and shit in my DAW, but it'd be nice to not have to balance
it out and be able to manipulate chunks of my audio within the modular realm in real
time.
I'd like to be able to use that for performance also.
I already have some ideas.
Are you imagining actually recording yourself using it like a loop or pedal type of thing?
Not a cool idea.
Like starting from a blank slate.
Yep, record, add new stuff to it.
Exactly.
That's a cool idea too because then like starting to click now when you're talking about like
now you can use those modules for something else.
So you can repatch on the fly and go, okay.
You don't even have to take that far.
You don't have to necessarily repatch it, but if you have, you can just all of a sudden
change the parameters.
Yeah.
And you'll still have this sound here and now you can either layer it with that or bounce
out a new chunk.
I don't know.
I have some ideas whether or not I'll actually be able to apply these ideas.
Not a cool idea though.
It's just me patching it in my head.
That's what people do with the Octatrack a lot.
We're talking about the last episodes that looper thing that's kind of elusive.
That sounds like it might be a quicker path that's like less of an Octatrack to get there.
It should be rad.
Yeah.
No time stretching or anything like that.
Like you would get in an Octo, but yeah, it's still similar in that way.
I do hope someone eventually, if not with the 4MS and some other easy looper will have
like time stretching and they will be very nice.
I'm trying to think of what can do that in a module right now.
I don't even know if the 301 can do it.
I think it was mentioned like it'll be added at some point in the 301.
I don't know if it's there currently, but yeah, because the hack right now is you take
the saw wave or saw wave into it and then just kind of have it move the start point
and then have it kind of shift through it and people are doing like.
We do time stretching that actually sounds like.
Yeah, that's what I used to do on the time so far.
Exactly.
You got to patch it.
Yeah, it's not just like offline.
Right.
Real time.
That's no fun because you want to be able to see the end points and the start points
while having something time stretch.
You know what I mean?
That's where the good good is.
Yeah.
That's where you start getting into some crazy fuckshed up manipulation.
We're just not close enough yet to battery in a module.
No.
Keep waiting for it.
This is there actually, he's working on the drum rack portion of this of the 301 which
seems like it'll be like battery esc, but still no time stretch.
Roland.
Alot of the boutique.
The boutique.
Boutique.
Are we saying that correct?
Yeah.
Boutique.
So they got the TR08 which is the 808 clone which is kind of inevitable given that they
did the 909.
They got the 101 in the different colors.
The 101.
I'd like to give that a shot maybe.
The boutique things they already like in my mind make me want to go left.
You know, it's like, oh, everybody's going to get these.
Don't do that.
Do something else.
Yeah.
I'm not peeling with them.
We're going to hear that sound a lot.
Well, look coming up here soon.
Again, just like we talked about last year around this time when they debuted the 909
and shit.
It's like why bring it back if you're not really offering anything new with it.
I mean, I know it has a few new tricks up its sleeve, but it's still like what?
20 years?
At least 30?
Oh, dude.
Yeah.
808 was 1980 and 909 was 1983.
And in 30 years you can't come up with anything more than just say like, oh, it can do Pauli
now and shit.
It's like, come on.
It's like, why just make something to be a throwback?
Because it is.
They know people.
Yeah.
People want that.
I mean, we talked about this exact thing last year and in the same vision.
In the same vision.
I read this review of it.
I'll say, you know, they're powered off like USB plugs.
The guys main complaint was if you power it off a USB, there's like an inevitable 60
cycle hum that comes into it that you can only fix by powering with batteries.
And they last like an hour and a half or two hours on the batteries or something like
that.
And this dude is talking about, yeah, when I take it to the club, it sounds amazing,
but I have to put batteries in right before I play it to get out of the 16th like hurts.
Get the fuck out of here.
Yeah.
That's what that's what his review.
Otherwise he's like, oh, it sounds great.
Like it sounds like better than the TRA does, but there's like, why did they power it that
way?
So they don't have another power option.
It's only USB or battery.
Yeah.
It's like a little USB.
Like a wallward.
I don't think so.
That's just stupid.
Yeah, I read that.
It was like, oh, never.
I don't get it.
They're cute.
Even Derek basically was like, all these things are fucking cute.
Yeah, they're adorable.
But at that point, you're just selling nostalgia and aesthetic.
They're doubling down on the cute too, because they've got that little, do you see the little
keyboard you can get?
Oh, yeah.
Yeah.
Everything about it is just like, I've got a nephew who's in the music.
I'm going to get him this cute little keyboard.
I mean, it's that level of adorableness.
I'm sure you can buy them this Christmas.
What's the fucking stuff?
Got a guitar center.
Not guitar center that plays themselves hipster record player.
Oh, I'm a urban author.
Thank you.
Oh, I guarantee you.
Oh, god.
You know what I mean?
It's going to be sitting right next to your fucking mustache toaster and all this other
cheese ball shit.
It's like, come on.
We're talking about a fucking legendary machine here.
Yeah.
You know what I mean?
It reduced the novelty.
Yeah.
Exactly.
It reduced to something you can get a fucking Spencer's gift.
It's like, fuck's sake.
Come on.
I'm not going to attack it at this angle, but it's like, why can't you just do what worked
first time?
And just call it fucking done.
Yeah.
Because people were, that was the one, the review where the guy said it had the homo.
He also mentioned like, in the original, the knob spanned the width of everything on
the machine.
If they would have moved it even like a few centimeters over, this thing wouldn't be painful
to like, he's like, he even said, like, I guarantee if you use it live, you're going
to fuck up these knobs.
Like, I have when you're doing a sweep, like on something in the middle of a sack.
Go to town on the knobs.
Yeah.
You can't tweak it out.
You're going to fuck them up.
Like, how do you not take your own legacy serious?
They fucked it up to about in the 90s and it's like, oh, you're going to recover.
No.
There you are.
The TR8 was such a promising start.
Yeah.
You still have one, right?
It's a great little machine.
It's lacking many things.
But it's fun to tweak out on.
Yeah.
Interface is nice.
It's not a stable sequencer shit, but it's whatever.
You can jump your patterns on it and shit and hook up a MIDI controller to it and make
up for that, I guess.
I mean, that's how I've gotten by.
I always felt like that was the start, not like, oh, this is it.
Right, right.
You know what I mean?
Yeah.
Like, I was like, okay, this is a good start.
I can't wait to see what they do next while paying respects to the older devices.
And this is what they come up with.
It's like, come on.
It's Japan too.
It's like they have a limited space so they want to sell devices that people in Japan
can have all of them in a reasonable amount of space without having our, you know, we
have huge houses compared to them.
So it's part cultural.
It's part that they, you know, miniaturization has always been.
What is it, the super-deformed, dusty versions of things?
I've always, that's like cultural phenomenon.
So they kind of made like the SD version of like the big boys.
And it's kind of like, just take it that extra step.
And this thing, Barringer immediately put up their picture of their one-on-one clone,
which has full-size guitar.
I haven't looked at that yet.
It's like M101 or something like that.
Yeah.
And it looks like, it's a kind of crappy picture of someone holding a keytar, but it looks
like it's-
That's what a one-on-one should be though.
Yeah, like, I had the keytar attachments for mine.
Never once used it like a keytar, but I was just excited to have that, you know, attachment
and the original strap and everything.
It was like, you know.
So you felt like they got the drawing on the side of the box.
Yeah.
That thing was, oh, it was mint too.
I mean, that's the only one-on-one I've really spent time with.
And that's the one that was-
It was mint, except for the fact some jag-off left the fucking batteries in.
And then it melted the inside.
And that's sure we can look forward to people doing the same thing with these ones now.
If you have to put fucking batteries in, just to not get a hum.
But yeah, one-on-one, man, it's a hell of a machine.
Yeah, it bums me out that they're doing it.
Doing it dirty, man.
Yeah.
I don't know if the one-on-one is this dirty.
Like I'm fine with the one-on-one.
Yeah.
Yeah, it's the 808 and the other ones.
Like the one-on-one looks usable.
They even made the sliders bigger because that's the Jupiter 8 version.
The sliders, it's like, centimeter of slider travel.
Oh, wait, seriously.
For real.
Have you ever- I've played with one at pianos and stuff.
I'm just like, oh, fuck, this is not usable.
The Juno had fuller sliders, but they really had to jam it in for the Jupiter one.
And it's like, ah, but even the Create Digital Music Review of the one-on-one, it's like,
oh, they extended the slider, so it's like full range.
They did a nice paint job.
It's not wobbly like the other ones.
So they're iterating on that concept.
The one-on-one looks interesting to me.
I would have to play with it, dude.
I'd have to hear it.
And I'd just have to play it.
You know, that was the thing with the one-on-one is that the interface was perfect.
Right.
I love the fucking slider.
I like sliders in general.
You know what I mean?
And the one-on-one sliders, I felt great.
You could find the sweet spots.
It was all sweet spots.
You know?
Exactly.
And I felt like I could dial in the ones that I wanted with my fucking eyes closed.
You knew where it was on that slider.
You know what I mean?
You filled out real quick.
It was like pounding on a multi-bandy cue.
You know what I mean?
You just know where the fuck you're going.
You don't even have to hear it yet.
You just know what you dial and end type of thing.
I don't know how you're going to be able to do that on a tiny little thing like that.
I feel like you're going to be overshooting your sweet spots.
You know what I mean?
Trying to dial in these little fucking sliders and stuff.
That's what the Jupiter 8 one that was like, "Oh, you can't even."
This is not usable to me.
And that's when people were like, "Oh, you can use it with an external CC's or something."
But they're like, "Exactly.
You defeated the purpose."
Yeah, exactly.
I wouldn't do anything.
Yup.
Make it the size of a fucking calculator.
I'll cut up a fucking MIDI box through it.
You have it just be a sound brain at that point.
Yeah.
Who can up a MIDI control?
You've admitted defeat at that point.
Like that it doesn't work for you.
The 909's been out for like a year.
Has it sold well?
I don't think I've seen a lot of live setups that included it.
When it was released, no one shut the fuck up about it.
Right.
There was so much chatter about it.
And now, yeah, I don't really see much happening with some of my own.
I don't know anyone that owns one.
Techno dude Paul Birkin.
But even then, I think he changed all the knobs on it.
Oh, yeah.
Then I had to have smaller knob caps so we could actually use the freaking thing live.
Now, it looks like he has a digit act instead of that.
There's also the hidden SP404 update, non-update.
So they released an SP404A alongside all of this stuff, which has the IRR colors.
And they sell it.
There's also a TR8 update so that you can trigger the SP404 from the TR8.
Except like they kind of sell it as though it's something you can do that already with
the existing SP404.
All they've done is put the new colors on it.
And they added a TR8 update so you can trigger it just like anything else could trigger via
MIDI.
So they've repainted the 404, added no features to it at all.
And they're selling it as the IRR version of it.
They make it seem like it can only do this shit with the TR8 or as anything.
Well, you need to match your other IRR products.
It seems like an odd split within the company.
These halfway there cute ones that look like the real thing versus you're like, you couldn't
make these fucking uglier.
IRR versions of things where it's like really the matrix aesthetic is really like they're
locked into it.
Green and black.
Yeah.
I can't deny.
I kind of like it.
Oh, you do?
I like it.
It makes me like nostalgic for the 90s, dude.
I like dude.
If I was like a 13 year old and I walked into the Guzzar Center in like, you know, 1995
or whatever and I saw a TR8 sitner glowing green and black dude out of piss my pants
for that.
I know that.
I'll admit to that too.
For me, they could have tapped into the modder's market where it would just make me sell me
something where I could make the trim black or like make it any color.
I do wish I could modify it.
Yes.
Yeah, they could have made a ton of money to sell it.
Like I've never seen the 808 mod for the TR.
Yeah, that looks nice.
I can't deny that.
But the default skins and shit to I kind of dig.
I don't know why.
It's not like the original 808 was I candy to begin with.
Oh, to me, that's like, yeah, like the originals, especially the 909 and the 808.
It's like that to me, that shit is like from that's alien shit.
Like really truly like, I don't know how you made that.
And that's that one engineer, same engineer that made like 303 808, 909.
That dude's on another planet.
That was a static.
808 always looked like an 8 track player to me.
Oh, yeah.
Yeah.
The look of it has never appealed to me.
The 909 I always kind of looked like because it just looks like something from a sci-fi
movie.
Yeah.
To me, they're like pure, just so 80s.
Like it's like, aw.
It's like a little shadow run to me.
Like it's that whole thing of like that's your deck.
But yeah, that being said, the backlit sliders that's brilliant.
Yeah.
Like for using it live or having it in a studio like they, the UI enhancements that they
put into that and the knob spacing, it's like so usable.
It's like, why is it?
You got to kind of get together and like make like seriously, don't you see that gap?
There's a middle ground between those two.
Yeah.
The TRA, yeah, it'll take up a chunk of dust space.
But it should.
Sliders for every voice well spaced.
You know, everything just jives.
It's a nice interface all around.
Yeah, I wish the, like I was hoping, like you said, like that seems like a good start.
Like take that interface and keep like, they kind of did shoehorn some other models into
it, I guess.
The 606, 70, 77, 77 stuff.
There's something, yeah, Mr. D kind of like, that's almost like the other end where it's
like, oh, this is patched out.
This is like analog, like there's like an interesting middle ground in there.
Like Roland could take that further, like individual outs that aren't kind of crazy to
assign and figure trigger inputs.
Absolutely.
I would love trigger inputs and trigger outputs.
Yeah.
What's actually on the back?
Like what are the ins and outs on that?
On the TRA?
Yeah.
You got two like AB outputs.
And then you got your main stereo out.
You can, if I recall, right?
You can assign the voices to the other AB out.
So you can't figure it to be like, rimshot always come out of this one.
You can, but the thing that annoys me with it is you can't do it live.
You have to restart the machine.
Yeah.
Holy shit.
To do a dedicated output on any voice.
Because that would be really cool to be able to just do that on the fly.
Yeah.
Which 8.9 and 9, it's like everything's there.
You know, meant to hook up to a mixer live.
I find it really hard to have that turn the machine off.
Hold the key code.
Sequence booted up.
Tell it which channel you want or which track I should say to go out which channel A or
B or main.
I've never even used it because I'm like, oh, I just used the stereo out.
I have just to route things through different distortions into that nature.
But like every time I do it, I'm like, well, fuck now I want this channel to go through
there too and this net and like you have to turn it off and go through the processing
and it's just not very speedy process.
It's kind of cumbersome.
Do you feel like there was like wasted real estate back there that they could have had
more trigger and trigger out all the stuff you room?
There's some space.
They probably didn't want to.
It was probably diminishing returns from a product development standpoint.
They're like, 90% of people are just going to bang stuff out of the stereo out.
So we're not going to put in the effort to add all these other jacks.
But.
TB3, I still have.
You don't have the.
Not anymore.
Yeah, that's good for as a baseline machine.
It's got some secrets in it too.
It's all about the alternate waveforms.
Yeah.
I don't even know if those were implemented yet when I had one.
I can't remember.
It was a very, very early version of the OS.
Just like the TR8 when I first had it.
Didn't have any of those other things.
It just had the 908 and 808.
That was it.
And then when I found out they released all this other stuff a year or so later, I bought
it again.
They're like 100 waveforms and you have to know where the square and the saw are.
Otherwise you're at their super saws.
There are all sorts of other emulations in a different way.
So the stars at night are big and bright.
Where?
Deep in the heart of West Virginia.
You see what I did there?
Yeah.
I switched it around.
So plonk.
Oh yeah.
Yeah.
Got a plonk.
We were hearing some demos of it earlier.
It sounded great.
Do you think so Dave?
I don't know.
Now you're making me second guess it.
Think about it.
No, I'm pretty happy with the sound of it overall.
Yeah.
I think it's too early to say if I feel like it sounds great just yet though.
Can you make it great?
Sell me on that end up being great.
It has a lot of different models and a lot of different presets but I feel like a lot
of sounds out of it overall sound the same tonally.
I feel like almost everything I've only messed with it for like four days now but I feel
like the majority of I get out of it all sounds like different variations of the same
preset.
Even though it's not.
Even if I completely wipe everything out, initiate preset and start from scratch.
I feel like a lot of things that come out of it sound like plonk.
You know what I mean?
Not that it's a bad thing.
It's just that I thought I would get a little more variety of different sounding things out
of it.
It's really funny you say that though because I had the exact opposite reaction whenever
you started playing me.
Really?
Some of that stuff I was like I can't believe that's coming out of that.
That's even better than I thought it was going to.
Okay.
Or like hope for.
Cool.
The bass sounds surprised me.
I was like oh it is good at bass.
Absolutely.
Even like sub bass.
I don't think I was expecting that.
I thought it would be better for more higher toned metallic percussion stuff and like string
like things.
You know what I mean?
I wasn't expecting it to be like a mutant bass drum.
It's definitely got some really nice definition on low end.
You know what I mean?
It even has some sub bass presets and some of the presets that I've made already were
based on variations of those ones.
You know what I mean?
Because it just does it really well.
But in my head I'm like comparing it to elements.
You know?
There's not too much out there.
It does physical modeling.
Right.
You're right.
I mean like you got, that's what you got.
You know what I mean?
You got your elements.
You got your plonk now.
Braids has some rings.
Different rings also.
That's mostly your presentation.
So you know what I mean?
Yeah I don't know.
Like for weird cussive stuff.
It's pretty limited.
You know what I mean?
I mean I feel like we have to compare the two.
You get more out of elements I feel like that sounded different from each other.
I feel like elements, it was kind of like a set it and forget it type of thing.
You would dial in your sound, get it to where you want and then you could hit it with a
variety of different modulations.
But you would just be working with that sound.
Whereas with plonk you can even cycle different presets.
You can morph things.
So you can jump from different types of sounds way way faster than you could ever do with
elements even if you knew all the sweet spots that you wanted to dial in.
You know what I mean?
Or sequence.
So it's definitely a faster workflow than elements for sure.
It's definitely a smaller footprint.
But I don't know.
I like it.
I'm just waiting to be like, I'm waiting to hit that spot where it like really blows
my mind.
There we go.
Alright, I'll wind you out of the way.
I can barely do it.
What is that?
Is that the BIA doing it?
Yeah.
It sounds so wimpy.
Anywho.
I was hitting the best stimulus terrorist altar hitting the trigger.
Oh my god.
Where's that nice like 8-bit tone?
I think that is because the attack isn't.
Oh yeah, okay.
Which I rarely normally set at noon just so I don't hear that 8-bit noise.
I'm modulating.
That's ornament and crime is doing its thing on it too.
Got quadraterias and then four LFOs and two for the inputs on there.
So Nick, you got a new fancy toil.
Oh yeah.
We got the ER301 which I'm like at this point.
I'm comfortable enough to talk about it.
I've likened it to the Octract but it's really more like a chain of things in Ableton.
But you can kind of nest those two.
And you could take any of those points of control and send CV to it.
And that's the cool thing I really like is that you can take one modulation source and
send it to one of the 12 inputs which is pretty generous.
And then it's bipolar modulation to target anything you want.
So you can have one CV change like 60 parameters at the same time if you want with different
amounts and levels and offsets for each one.
So they're like it's got two screens right, two LEDs.
The second one, that's where you end up assigning like CV coming in.
So you have 12 inputs and you can route any of those 12 pretty much anywhere.
Yeah, anywhere.
And you can take any one of them.
It's like one to many, not just like one to one.
So you can take any of those targets.
So it's really like it's plenty of control.
You can actually, I think it's cool because like the dude like he labels like the frequency
ranges and everything for all the IO right here because you can do audio with these two.
But it's just limited and it's not the bandwidth of the actual true audio inputs which sound
fucking good.
Like the recordings are awesome.
It's got a six track recorder built in.
So you can do like four inputs recording but you can also do just monitor everything that's
going on while you're recording too.
So one of the nice things is like you can you can have something just always recording
everything that you're doing on the module and still have four channels of recording stuff.
So it's like just a record of what's going on which is really cool because even with
a DAW you can't really do that.
If you hit you know certain things in Ableton if you stop it it stops recording but this
is like constantly recording everything that you're doing which is really nice.
The resampling it's rad.
There's a learning curve to it but even I thought the aux track was harder to learn.
Honestly that thing took me like a half a year or a year to get used to.
This is like I don't even put too much time into it but once you get the general flow
the hardest thing is just knowing like when to nest an envelope or like how to get to
these screens and then when you get into it he's like all these nice shortcuts like there's
a home button that just goes up.
There's an up button that goes up in the chain.
Home button double hit it takes you back to the start.
He's added a screenshot feature so you can like share kind of your patches or things
that are going on which is kind of nice.
There aren't like there's a low pass filter right now.
There's no high pass.
There's no band.
What he knows it's on the roadmap like I've got to add a lot more of these basics and
really he wants I think just a plug in framework so that other people can do that stuff like
I think we mentioned before.
So you can record up four things at once.
How many can you play at once?
Oh a four.
Okay.
Yeah so like four in four out types.
Yeah.
So you've got these buttons over here.
The corresponding you can link these to be stereo too.
It's actually.
So like two stereo pair?
Yeah.
You can do two stereo pair.
You can do an individual mono.
And it's flexible.
You can do the mono here, the mono here and then stereo in the middle.
It's got some depth to it for sure.
There are lots of parts that I haven't really gotten to.
One time we did a Prince James burning show in Philly and I had ordered that circuit bent
Kawai drum machine.
Oh yeah.
And it got shipped like way later than I wanted to.
Like originally I wanted to use that live and then the day that we were leaving for Philly
it fucking shows up at the door.
I didn't even open the box.
I just threw it in the car with the rest of the gear and I spent an hour and a half in
sound check just fucking with it.
And I was like trying to figure out where I could incorporate it.
So I did.
I just figured out a few spots in the set where like I could just improvise with it.
I had no idea what I was saying on the phone.
And it was circuit bent on top of that.
So I was like this thing's just going to shit itself live.
But I was like fucking I'm going to try it.
Yeah.
I worked that all right.
I did that with the digitact of that last set.
I was like how did it meet?
Yeah.
I was surprised to see it out on your table live.
I go okay.
I took it out at one point when I was practicing on the table at home.
I was like okay this is like it's a lot to manage.
I even mentioned previous podcasts like two drum machines like you're going to do this.
But it worked out well enough.
I like it together with the rhythm.
I think they complimented nicely.
It really seems like it would compliment any other electron box.
Yeah.
Really well drum.
You know hitting a machine drum with the MIDI tracks with the probabilistic stuff built
in there now.
You know like that's a good idea.
That's a good idea.
I was thinking about that when I was looking at that machine drum that popped up for sale
real cheap and I was like oh man.
I was like I can probably sequence that with a digitact and just the two of those alone
would probably be a solid live set.
Yeah.
I mean maybe a synth box on top of it for your more synth line and atmospheric stuff.
The one thing I was thinking of though that would be a bad limitation is that you have
more voices on the machine drum that you do MIDI tracks on the digit.
This is true.
So you would be hard limited there.
Still eight.
Yeah.
It's pretty generous.
Yeah but it's just the fact that you wouldn't be able to utilize every voice on there.
That was the one limitation that popped into my head but other than that it seemed like
it would be a cool combo.
[Music]
(upbeat music)